+++
title = "About Me"
path = "about"
date = 2009-12-02
template = "about.html"
author = "moparisthebest"
+++

I started playing Runescape in December of 2004, I started cheating on Runescape around January of 05 when i found a site with SCAR scripts on it from google, www.rstools.prv.pl, I downloaded chrizs ironminerbanker from there and I was off cheating. Reading that script is how I learned to write scripts. Then in April my mostly legit main got banned because I messed up one line on my second script ever, an autofletcher. I then took a break from runescape, only to come back a few months later in July to find my first cheating community, sythe.org, after posting there a while, I came across a link to kaitnieks.com. I knew the name kaitnieks as the creator of SCAR, so I figured I would check it out, all of the people there including kaitnieks himself were so nice and friendly I just stayed. Since then I have learned many many things, posted a few SCAR scripts people still use and spammed the forums quite well. When winterlove released his private server publicly I wrote a client for it as basically my first attempt at client modifing, well it stuck and everyone started using it. After that I worked on another project, MoparScape Revolution, a pking/SCARable client that was autoupdating and incorporated all of the features I liked to give us cheaters an unfair advantage against legit players in the game. Over the years I have written various small tools, games, and frameworks. One of the ones that I like the best, is a project called Cherokee, which can be found with the full source on sourceforge.net by checking it out with SVN. Though it is not a full fledged bot, it does not lack much from being one, and can be a valuable learning resource for anyone interested in runescape cheating. Since then most of my time has been taken up with college, and courting Ashton up to our recent marriage. I have had time to release a few more private server versions of MoparScape, and soon another will be forthcoming.

Unbeknownst to most of the cheaters, I also have a real life (who would have guessed?) So Ill tell you a little about that too, I live in the state of Ohio, in the USA. I recently graduated college with a Bachelor’s degree in Computer Science. I also just got married to the love of my life, Ashton, on August 8th, 2009. I like hunting, computers, and mostly cars. (cant you tell from my name?) I own a 1989 Chevy S10 Baja, which is my baby and my daily driver. The original 4.3L V6 finally blew at about 312,000 miles, so I replaced it with a new 5.7L 350ci V8, which was no small job at all, but now it is more awesome than ever. My show truck is a 1990 Chevy 454SS, and its 7.4L motor is just as strong as ever, always trying to roast whatever tires I put on the back of it. I also own a 1973 Plymouth Satellite Sebring, with the rare engine that came in it, the 400ci big block. It needs minor restoration but is in runnable condition and looks great. One day I may get around to posting pictures of my vehicles, but don’t expect it any time soon.

That’s all for now, if you have any questions that aren’t answered just ask them ;)
